tidb: add a new system variable `tidb_service_scope` (#14796)
pingcap/docs: system-variables.md

- The threshold at which the prepared plan cache triggers a memory protection mechanism. For details, see [Memory management of Prepared Plan Cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md).
- This setting was previously a `tidb.toml` option (`prepared-plan-cache.memory-guard-ratio`), but changed to a system variable starting from TiDB v6.1.0.

### `tidb_service_scope` <span class="version-mark">New in v7.4.0</span>

> **Warning:**
>
> This feature is an experimental feature. It is not recommended to use it in production environments. This feature might be changed or removed without prior notice. If you find a bug, you can report an [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues) on GitHub.

- Scope: GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: No
- Type: String
- Default value: ``
- Optional Value: ``, `background`

> - This variable is an instance level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`,  the TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule that TiDB server to execute background tasks (such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This variable is an instance level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule that TiDB server to execute background tasks (such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md)).
```

- The threshold at which the prepared plan cache triggers a memory protection mechanism. For details, see [Memory management of Prepared Plan Cache](/sql-prepared-plan-cache.md).
- This setting was previously a `tidb.toml` option (`prepared-plan-cache.memory-guard-ratio`), but changed to a system variable starting from TiDB v6.1.0.

### `tidb_service_scope` <span class="version-mark">New in v7.4.0</span>

> **Warning:**
>

> > This feature is an experimental feature. It is not recommended to use it in production environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This feature is an experimental feature. It is not recommended to use it in production environments. This feature might be changed or removed without prior notice. If you find a bug, you can report an [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues) on GitHub.
```

> 
> ### `tidb_service_scope` <span class="version-mark">New in v7.4.0</span>
> 
> > **Warning:**
> >
> > This feature is an experimental feature. It is not recommended to use it in production environments.
> 
> - Scope: GLOBAL
> - Persists to cluster: No
> - Type: String
> - Default value: ``
> - Optional Value: ``, `background`
> - This variable is an instance level system variable which is used to control the service scope of nodes under [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When one TiDB server set `tidb_service_scope` to `background`,  TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule that TiDB server to execute background tasks(Add Index and `IMPORT INTO`）。
> - If all nodes in the cluster don't set their own `tidb_service_scope`, TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule all TiDB servers to execute backend tasks by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `tidb_service_scope` <span class="version-mark">New in v7.4.0</span>

> **Warning:**
>
> This feature is an experimental feature. It is not recommended to use it in production environments.

- Scope: GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: No
- Type: String
- Default value: ``
- Optional Value: ``, `background`
- This variable is an instance level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`,  the TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule that TiDB server to execute background tasks (such as Add Index and `IMPORT INTO`).
- If all nodes in the cluster do not set their own `tidb_service_scope`, TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule all TiDB servers to execute backend tasks by default.
```

- Range: `[128, 9223372036854775807]`, in bytes. The memory format with the units "KB|MB|GB|TB" is also supported.
- After you enable the memory limit, TiDB will terminate the SQL statement with the highest memory usage on the current instance. This variable specifies the minimum memory usage of the SQL statement to be terminated. If the memory usage of a TiDB instance that exceeds the limit is caused by too many sessions with low memory usage, you can properly lower the value of this variable to allow more sessions to be canceled.

> ### `tidb_service_scope` <span class="version-mark">New in v7.4.0</span>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### tidb_service_scope <span class="version-mark">New in v7.4.0</span>
```

> **Warning:**
>
> This feature is an experimental feature. It is not recommended to use it in production environments. This feature might be changed or removed without prior notice. If you find a bug, you can report an [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues) on GitHub.

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

- Scope: GLOBAL

> - Persists to cluster: No

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Persists to cluster: No
- Applies to hint [SET_VAR](/optimizer-hints.md#set_varvar_namevar_value): No
```

- Type: String
- Default value: ``
- Optional Value: ``, `background`

> - This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule that TiDB node to execute background tasks (such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks (such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md)).
```

> - This variable is an instance level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule that TiDB server to execute background tasks (such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This variable is an instance level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule that TiDB node to execute background tasks (such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md)).
```

> - If `tidb_service_scope` is not set for any TiDB node in a cluster, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules all TiDB nodes to execute background tasks by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> **Note:**
>
> - If `tidb_service_scope` is not set for any TiDB node in a cluster, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules all TiDB nodes to execute background tasks. If you're concerned about performance impact on current business, you can set `tidb_service_scope` as `background` for a few of the TiDB nodes. Only those nodes will perform execute background tasks.
> - For newly scaled nodes, the TiDB distributed execution framework tasks are not executed by default to avoid consuming the resources of the scaled node. If you want this scaled node to perform background tasks, you need to manually set the `tidb_service_scop` of this node to `background`.
```

> - If all nodes in the cluster do not set their own `tidb_service_scope`, TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule all TiDB servers to execute backend tasks by default.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- If all nodes in the cluster do not set their own `tidb_service_scope`, TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule all TiDB nodes to execute backend tasks by default.
```

Reviewer 4: 要不都统一为 TiDB node ？不然有些地方叫 instance，有些地方叫 Server，有些地方叫 node，优点混乱 @ywqzzy

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

- Scope: GLOBAL

> - Persists to cluster: No

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Persists to cluster: No
- Applies to hint [SET_VAR](/optimizer-hints.md#set_varvar_namevar_value): No
```

- Type: String
- Default value: ``
- Optional Value: ``, `background`

> - This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule that TiDB node to execute background tasks (such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/sql-statement-import-into)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks (such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/sql-statement-import-into)).
```

> - This variable is an instance level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule that TiDB server to execute background tasks (such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/sql-statement-import-into)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This variable is an instance level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule that TiDB note to execute background tasks (such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/sql-statement-import-into)).
```

> - This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks (such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md)).
> - If `tidb_service_scope` of all TiDB nodes in the cluster are not set, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules all TiDB nodes to execute background tasks by default.
> 
> </CustomContent>
> 
> <CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">
> 
> - Scope: GLOBAL
> - Persists to cluster: No
> - Type: String
> - Default value: ``
> - Optional Value: ``, `background`
> - This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks (such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/sql-statement-import-into)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks, such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md).
- If `tidb_service_scope` of all TiDB nodes in the cluster are not set, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules all TiDB nodes to execute background tasks by default.

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

- Scope: GLOBAL
- Persists to cluster: No
- Type: String
- Default value: ``
- Optional Value: ``, `background`
- This variable is an instance-level system variable. You can use it to control the service scope of TiDB nodes under the [TiDB distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). When you set `tidb_service_scope` of a TiDB node to `background`, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules that TiDB node to execute background tasks, such as [`ADD INDEX`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-add-index.md) and [`IMPORT INTO`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/sql-statement-import-into).
```

> - If `tidb_service_scope` is not set for any TiDB node in a cluster, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules all TiDB nodes to execute background tasks by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> **Note:**
>
> - If `tidb_service_scope` is not set for any TiDB node in a cluster, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules all TiDB nodes to execute background tasks. If you're concerned about performance impact on current business, you can set `tidb_service_scope` as `background` for a few of the TiDB nodes. Only those nodes will perform execute background tasks.
> - For newly scaled nodes, the TiDB distributed execution framework tasks are not executed by default to avoid consuming the resources of the scaled node. If you want this scaled node to perform background tasks, you need to manually set the `tidb_service_scop` of this node to `background`.
```

> - If all nodes in the cluster do not set their own `tidb_service_scope`, TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule all TiDB nodes to execute backend tasks by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If `tidb_service_scope` of all TiDB nodes in the cluster are not set, the TiDB distributed execution framework schedules all TiDB nodes to execute backend tasks by default.
```

> - If all nodes in the cluster do not set their own `tidb_service_scope`, TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule all TiDB servers to execute backend tasks by default.

Author: ```suggestion
- If all nodes in the cluster do not set their own `tidb_service_scope`, TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule all TiDB nodes to execute backend tasks by default.
```

> - If all nodes in the cluster do not set their own `tidb_service_scope`, TiDB distributed execution framework will schedule all TiDB servers to execute backend tasks by default.

Reviewer 4: 同上， 要不都统一为 TiDB node ？
